Contributing
============

Because the project is really young, please join the \#oshu IRC channel on
[chat.freenode.net](https://freenode.net/kb/answer/chat) if you'd like to
contribute. Someone is probably already working on your idea, and most likely
myself :)

You may also open issues on [GitHub][] or contact me directly by mail.

[GitHub]: https://github.com/fmang/oshu/


Documentation
-------------

The HTML documentation is generated by Doxygen. Run `make html` and open
`html/index.html` relative to your build directory to browse it.

Doxygen is detected by CMake when you configure the project. You may need to
re-run CMake if it didn't detect Doxygen after you installed it.


Technical choices
-----------------

C is love, but the cost of purity is high and sacrifices type safety. The code
is being ported to modern C++ but its paradigm will remain mostly procedural

Since this project is meant to have fun, let's also have fun while making it!

First of all, the graphical part. Tons of libraries exist, some OpenGL-focused
like glfw, some that are hybrid and able to make do with the CPU only. Of
course, we're going to choose the latter.

So we've got SDL2 and overkill toolkits like Qt and GTK. SDL2 sounds good.

For the audio part, it's more complicated. All the graphical toolkits above
have an audio module, but if we're going for the SDL, might as well use the SDL
audio facility because it will be well integrated.

The SDL2 audio subsystem is quite basic and can only play raw audio. A
higher-level library called SDL2_mixer provides a cool way to load fancy files
like MP3 but does not provide fine control over the stream. Specifically, it
won't tell us the time information in the audio stream's frame, which is
crucial for a rhythm game. Most high-level audio libraries don't provide that
kind of thing anyway. Another required feature is the mixing of sound effects,
which don't make much sense in frameworks like gstreamer.

The easy way is relying on the process time and hoping it doesn't deviate too
much from the song. The hard way is using the low-level interfaces to keep in
sync with the music.

Relying on libavcodec (ffmpeg) is the killer option, even though it's quite
manual and relies on a good understanding of the audio decoding process. But
hey, it's an opportunity to learn! Beside, using libavcodec provides an
incredible set of supported audio formats.
